Whether it be storing it, retrieving it,
or both, almost every application interacts with data these days.
Data is super important.
And the easier it is to develop applications that can interact with data,
the better.
And that's the job of the Spring Framework's Data Access module.
To get started, let's start off with an example.
On the left we have some example code that's used to fetch data from a
database using the Java Database Connectivity API,
or JDBC as it's commonly referred to.
Now don't worry about the code.
The specifics really aren't important.
The important point to make here is that it requires a
fair amount of code to retrieve data, and if you look a little bit closer,
you'll realize that there's really only a small area of
the code that's important to the logic.
The rest of the surrounding code is required to use the API.
This code that's necessary to use the API,
but sort of causes clutter in our application is called boilerplate code.
And as you can imagine,
adding this same boilerplate code every time you needed to
write or retrieve data becomes very tedious.
Let's take a look at what this same code looks like,
but using the Spring Framework's Data Access support.
As you can see, the code on the left is significantly reduced,
and not only is it reduced, it's much more clear as to the intent of this code.
We don't have to weed through the boilerplate code
just to understand the purpose of it.
The Spring Framework's Data Access support also makes it
super easy to use database transactions.
Now, you may not be familiar with what a database transaction is,
so let me quickly explain.
A transaction is a general unit of work that must
happen all together or not at all.
So a database transaction is a series of database
operations that must happen all together,
or not at all.
And just to be clear, that doesn't necessarily mean that they all happen at once,
they just all happen or they don't happen at all.
A classic real-life example of a transaction is
transferring money between two bank accounts.
You first have to subtract the amount from the first account,
say it's $50, and then you add that amount to the second account.
And if the subtraction of the money succeeds,
but the addition fails, then the money's lost.
And likewise, if the subtraction fails, but the addition succeeds,
then somebody just got 50 bucks for free.
So as you can see, transferring money between two accounts must be transactional.
It must happen all together or not at all.
Let's take a look at another example.
Again using the JDBC API,
the following code on the left is a pretty standard example of executing
a series of statements within a database transaction.
And just like with our previous example,
you'll notice there's a lot of boilerplate code here that sort of draws
focus away from the main core intent of the code.
Let's see what this same code looks like using the
transactional support in the Spring Framework.
Wow, that's a lot simpler.
You simply declare the method as transactional,
meaning that you want this method to execute within a transaction,
and the Spring Framework takes care of the rest.
Another small,
but interesting feature provided by the Data Access module is
something called exception translation.
And exceptions are events within a program that disrupt execution.
So for instance, if you tried to read data from a database and you got an error,
the Java code would throw an exception.
And the problem is,
different database vendors have different errors and different
exceptions for the same class of errors.
So for instance, consider an example where you had problems with the data,
and when using MySQL,
a data integrity violation could return any one of the following codes,
such as 630, or 839, or 1557.
And that same data integrity violation in Oracle
would return something like 1400, or 2292,
and the Data Access module of the Spring Framework helps by
taking these database-specific error codes and translating them
into a well-known set of exceptions.
So just to make this a bit more concrete,
looking at the different error codes from MySQL and Oracle,
you can see that the Spring Framework would translate those into
something called a DataIntegrityViolationException.
Last, but certainly not least,
Data Access support within the Spring Framework helps to make testing easier.
Since the Spring Framework is managing the configuration and the
set up of how an application accesses its data,
it's very easy to switch out that configuration for testing.
So for instance, during testing it's common to utilize an embedded test database.
You certainly wouldn't want to be running your tests
with important production data,
and Spring's Data Access support helps to set up that
embedded test database and ensure that your code is configured to point to that during tests.